Updated 2025-03-11
# Object Storage Metrics
Learn about the metrics generated by the Object Storage service.
You can monitor the health, capacity, and performance of your buckets and objects by using [metrics](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Monitoring/Concepts/monitoringoverview.htm#metrics), [alarms](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Monitoring/Concepts/monitoringoverview.htm#alarms), and [notifications](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Notification/home.htm).
This topic describes the metrics emitted by the metric namespace `oci_objectstorage` (the Object Storage service).
Resources include buckets and objects.
## Overview of the Object Storage Service Metrics 🔗 
Object Storage can store an unlimited amount of unstructured data of any content type, including analytic data and rich content, like images and videos. The Object Storage service metrics help you measure the amount of storage you're using. You can also use these metrics to monitor the performance of requests in terms of latency and utilization as measured by counts of requests made per bucket.
## Required IAM Policy 🔗 
To monitor resources, you must be granted the required type of access in a **policy** written by an administrator, whether you're using the Console or the REST API with an SDK, CLI, or other tool. The policy must give you access to both the monitoring services and the resources being monitored. If you try to perform an action and get a message that you don't have permission or are unauthorized, contact the administrator to find out what type of access you were granted and which **compartment** you need to work in. For more information about user authorizations for monitoring, see [IAM Policies](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Security/Reference/monitoring_security.htm#iam-policies). 
## Available Metrics: oci_objectstorage 🔗 
The metrics listed in the following tables are automatically available for any buckets you create. You don't need to enable monitoring on the resource to get these metrics. However, you must have an object stored in a bucket to get _any_ metrics. Buckets with no objects emit _no_ metric data.
**Note**
Valid [alarm intervals](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Monitoring/Tasks/create-alarm.htm) depend on the frequency at which the metric is emitted. Be sure to set alarm intervals equal to or greater than the frequency at which the metrics are emitted. You can find the emit frequency for each metric in the [Default Metrics](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Object/Reference/objectstoragemetrics.htm#metrics-list__Default) and [Custom Query Metrics](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Object/Reference/objectstoragemetrics.htm#metrics-list__Custom) tables.
Each metric includes the following **dimensions** :  

RESOURCEID
    The **OCID** of the bucket to which the metric applies. 

RESOURCEDISPLAYNAME
    The name of the **bucket**.  

TIER
    The storage tier (standard or archive) where the **object** resides.
### Default Metrics 🔗 
The following default metric charts are available for each Object Storage bucket from the bucket details page. See [To view default metric charts for a bucket](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Object/Reference/objectstoragemetrics_topic-Using_the_Console.htm#console). 
Metric | Metric Display Name | Unit |  Description/ Emit Frequency | Dimensions  
---|---|---|---|---  
`ObjectCount` | **Number of Objects** | count |  The count of objects in the bucket, excluding any multipart upload parts that haven't been discarded (aborted) or committed.  Emit frequency: every hour  | `resourceID` `resourceDisplayName` `tier`  
`StoredBytes` | **Bucket Size** | bytes |  The size of the bucket, excluding any multipart upload parts that haven't been discarded (aborted) or committed.  Emit frequency: every hour  
### Custom Query Metrics  🔗 
The following custom query metric charts are available using **Metrics Explorer**. See [Using the Console](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Object/Reference/objectstoragemetrics_topic-view_custom_query.htm#console).
Metric | Metric Display Name | Unit |  Description/ Emit Frequency | Dimensions  
---|---|---|---|---  
`AllRequests` | **All Requests Count** | count |  The total number of all HTTP requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms | `resourceID` `resourceDisplayName`  
`ClientErrors` | **Client-Side Error Count** | count |  The total number of 4xx errors for requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`EnabledOLM` | **Enabled Object Lifecycle Management** | count |  Indicates whether a bucket has any executable Object Lifecycle Management policies configured. `EnabledOLM` emits:
  * 1 if policies are configured
  * 0 if no policies are configured

Emit frequency: every 3 hours  
`FirstByteLatency` | **First Byte Latency Time** | time (ms) |  The per-request time measured from the time Object Storage receives the complete request to when Object Storage returns the first byte of the response. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`PostRequests` | **PostObject Request Count** | count |  The total number of HTTP Post requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`PutRequests` | **PutObject Request Count** | count |  The total number of `PutObject` requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`TotalRequestLatency` | **Overall Latency Time** | time (ms) |  The per-request time from the first byte received by Object Storage to the last byte sent from Object Storage. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`UncommittedParts` | **Incomplete MultiPart Upload Size** | bytes |  The size of any multipart upload parts that haven't been discarded (aborted) or committed. Emit frequency: every hour | `resourceID` `resourceDisplayName` `tier`  
`ListRequests` | **List Requests** | count |  The total number of `ListObject` requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms | `resourceID``resourceDisplayName`  
`GetRequests` | **Get Requests** | count |  The total number of `GetObject` requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`HeadRequests` | **Head Requests** | count |  The total number of `HeadObject` requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`DeleteRequests` | **Delete Requests** | count |  The total number of `DeleteObject` requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`CopyRequests` | **Copy Requests** | count |  The total number of `CopyObject` requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`RenameRequests` | **Rename Requests** | count |  The total number of `RenameObject` requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
`ArchiveRequests` | **Archive Requests** | count |  The total number of `ArchiveObject` requests made in a bucket. Emit frequency: every 100 ms  
Was this article helpful?
YesNo

