Updated 2025-03-07
# Using the Oracle Mobile Authenticator
After you enroll the Oracle Mobile Authenticator (OMA) app as a 2–Step Verification method, use it to provide a second method of verification to securely sign in to applications.
  1. Enter your username and password in an MFA-protected environment.
The **2-Step Verification** page appears, and then you're prompted for your second verification method. 
  2. The authentication method that displays depends on the MFA method that your administrator enabled:
When you enroll in Mobile App Notification (push notifications to allow or deny authentication) using the Oracle Mobile Authenticator (OMA) app, **Mobile app notification** is the default method pushed to your phone for authentication.
    1. **Using a mobile app notification**
You're prompted to open and respond to the notification that was sent to the OMA app on your mobile device.
      1. Tap the OMA app on your device to launch it.
      2. Open the notification in the OMA app, and then tap **Allow**.
**Note**
If you don't receive a mobile app notification from your OMA app, then you need to manually check (pull) for pending app notifications. 
To manually check (pull) for pending app notifications. See [Manually Checking for Pending Notifications](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/mobileauthapp/manually-check-pending-notifications.htm#manually-check-pending-notifications "Oracle Mobile Authenticator \(OMA\) app automatically checks for authentication requests, but you can also manually check for your pending notifications.").
If manually checking for pending notifications doesn't work, use a mobile app passcode.
    2. **Using a mobile app passcode**
You're prompted to enter the passcode that's generated by the OMA app on your mobile device.
To avoid clock skew, which is the time difference between the server and your device, ensure that your device clock is synchronized. The maximum allowed time difference is 90 seconds.
      1. Go to the sign in page, select **Show alternative login methods** , and choose mobile app passcode.
      2. Tap the OMA app on your device to launch it.
      3. Tap the account for which you want to get an OTP. An OTP for the account appears. Note the countdown until a new OTP is automatically generated.
      4. Enter or paste that passcode into the **Passcode** box on the **2-Step Verification** page, and then select **Verify**.
  3. (Optional) If enabled by the administrator, select the **Trust this computer for _ days** checkbox to skip providing a second method of authentication for the number of days indicated when you sign in from the same device. An administrator specifies the number of days. 
  4. (Optional) If you are unable to use the OMA app, for example, you don't have your phone with you, select **Show alternative login methods** to use an alternative method to verify your identity. 
**Note** You must have previously set up more than one verification method, such as using a bypass code that you previously generated and stored in a safe place. If you haven't set up more than one verification method, you can contact support and have a bypass code generated for you. If you need help contacting support, see [Creating a Support Request](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/Content/GSG/support/create-incident.htm).
  5. (Optional) You can also select **Show alternative login methods** to change your default verification method. 
    1. Select **Show alternative login methods**. All 2–Step Verification methods that you're enrolled in appear in the **Alternative login methods** section. 
    2. Select a different verification method. You're then prompted to enter the required verification for that method.
    3. Enter the required verification.
    4. Select the **Make this my default method** checkbox to set this 2-Step Verification method as your default. The next time that you sign in, you're prompted to verify your identity using this method of verification. 


Was this article helpful?
YesNo

