Updated 2024-02-13
# Using the Oracle Mobile Authenticator App
Use the Oracle Mobile Authenticator (OMA) App to perform tasks such as adding an account to the OMA App and then using the OMA App as a second verification method with IAM.
Task | Description | Additional Information  
---|---|---  
Download the Oracle Mobile Authenticator App | Learn how to download the OMA app outside of the 2FA enrollment process. |  [Downloading the Oracle Mobile Authenticator App](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/mobileauthapp/download-mobile-authenticator-app.htm#download-mobile-authenticator-app "You can download the Oracle Mobile Authenticator \(OMA\) app during two-factor enrollment or you can download it before you're prompted for two-factor enrollment so that you can add accounts to the app without downloading it during enrollment.")  
Register new and reregistering existing mobile devices | Register Oracle Mobile Authenticator (OMA) with a new mobile device if you already have OMA registered on one mobile device and need to register it on a new mobile device. Reregister OMA with an existing mobile device if you started the OMA registration process but the process didn't complete and you're receiving an error when trying to use OMA. In both cases, you must contact an identity domain administrator. |  [Registering New And Reregistering Existing Mobile Devices](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/mobileauthapp/registering_mobile_devices_with_oma.htm#registering_mobile_devices_with_oma "Register Oracle Mobile Authenticator \(OMA\) with a new mobile device if you already have OMA registered on one mobile device and need to register it on a new mobile device. Reregister OMA with an existing mobile device if you started the OMA registration process but the process didn't complete and you're receiving an error when trying to use OMA. In both cases, you must contact an identity domain administrator.")  
Use the OMA App |  Learn how to add an account to the OMA App by scanning the QR code, entering the key manually, or using the enrollment URL |  [Overview of the Oracle Mobile Authenticator App](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/mobileauthapp/use-oracle-mobile-authenticator-app.htm#use-oracle-mobile-authenticator-app1 "The Oracle Mobile Authenticator \(OMA\) app is a mobile device app that you can use as a second verification method by tapping Allow on the login request notification sent to your phone or by using the one-time passcode \(OTP\) that the app generates.")  
Manage the Oracle Mobile Authenticator App |  Learn how to switch between grid and list views, edit and delete accounts, manage your PIN, and view notification history. |  [Manage the OMA App](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/mobileauthapp/manage-oracle-mobile-authenticator-app.htm#manage-oracle-mobile-authenticator-app "The Oracle Mobile Authenticator \(OMA\) app makes it easy for you to customize how you view your accounts, manage your PIN, and manage notifications.")  
Was this article helpful?
YesNo

