Updated 2023-06-08
# Managing Application Integrations
Manage application integration.
This section contains information about ways of integrating external applications, non-Oracle applications, with IAM:
  * [Why Should You Integrate Your Applications?](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/appinteg/overview.htm#overview "Integrating your applications makes it easy for users to sign in with single sign on and gives you a central place to manage their permissions. Application integration includes securing your users, protecting the resources within the applications, and enabling users to access your applications through single sign-on \(SSO\). Integrating your applications with IAM provides the user with a seamless experience. Because of SSO, the user doesn't have to remember different IDs and passwords for each application. When your applications are integrated with IAM, your administrative overhead is reduced greatly because you can manage the policies and users for your applications from one central place. From a compliance perspective, IAM provides you with a single location where you can manage the access that your users have to your applications."): Learn how to use application integration to reduce the time needed to develop new applications by offloading the business logic to secure them to IAM.
  * [Setting Up RADIUS Proxy](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/radiusproxy/overview.htm#overview "Remote Authentication Dial In User Service \(RADIUS\) is a network protocol that defines rules and conventions for communication between network devices. RADIUS Proxy authenticates and authorizes users or devices and also tracks the usage of those services."): Use RADIUS Proxy to authenticate and authorize users or devices, and track the usage of services.
  * [Understanding App Gateway](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/appgateways/understand-app-gateway.htm#understand-administrator-roles "App Gateway is a software appliance that lets you integrate applications hosted either on a compute instance, in a cloud infrastructure, or in an on-premises server with IAM for authentication purposes."): Use App Gateway to integrate applications hosted either on a compute instance, in a cloud infrastructure, or in an on-premises server with IAM for authentication purposes.
  * [Installing and Configuring the Linux PAM](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/linuxpam/overview.htm#pam "The Pluggable Authentication Module \(PAM\) lets you to integrate your Linux environment with IAM to perform end-user authentication with first and second factor authentication."): Use Linux PAM to integrate your Linux environment with IAM to perform end-user authentication with first and second factor authentication.
  * [Using the E-Business Suite Asserter with IAM](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/ebs/overview.htm#overview "Use the OCI IAM E-Business Suite Asserter component, which you can download from the Console, to integrate your Oracle E-Business Suite environment with other cloud and non cloud services using IAM Single Sign-On \(SSO\)."): Use IAM E-Business Suite Asserter to integrate your Oracle E-Business Suite with IAM so that end users can authenticate in Oracle E-Business Suite environments and with Oracle E-Business Suite mobile applications using their IAM credentials.


Was this article helpful?
YesNo

