Updated 2025-02-13
# Inviting a Tenancy to Join an Organization 
Create an invitation to join an organization and asynchronously send the invitation to the recipient.
If you have the correct limits, you can invite another tenancy to join your organization. If the tenancy joins your organization, its subscription is managed by the parent tenancy. 
For more information about the limits related to inviting another tenancy, see [Organization Limits](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/servicelimits.htm#organizations-limits).
To accept the invitation, the invited (recipient) tenancy must have the correct permissions to manage subscription sharing in the child tenancy. For more information, see [Required IAM Policy](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/organization_required_iam_policy.htm#organization_management_required_iam_policy "Learn about Organization Management required IAM policies."). The recipient tenancy also must be in a home region within the same realm.
**Note**
Parent tenancies and tenancies that aren't already in a sharing relationship can send invitations. Child tenancies _can't_ send invitations.
If the invitation is accepted by an authorized user in the recipient tenancy, and the recipient tenancy is subscribed to a Pay As You Go subscription, all usage in the recipient tenancy will be metered against your subscription. To stop sharing your subscription with the recipient tenancy after the invitation has been accepted, you can [map the subscription](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/subscription-mapping-create.htm#subscription_mapping_create "Map tenancies to subscriptions within Organization Management.").
Invited tenancies continue to retain their own distinct service limits, and they can request a limits increase through support requests. For more information, see [Requesting a Service Limit Increase](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/servicelimits.htm#Requesti).
**Important** An invited tenancy is automatically mapped to the default subscription in the organization, so all usage is computed and charged against the default subscription's **rate card**. If you don't want the invited tenancy to consume from the default subscription, you can [map the subscription](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/subscription-mapping-create.htm#subscription_mapping_create "Map tenancies to subscriptions within Organization Management.") back to the original subscription after the invited tenancy has joined the organization.
  * [Console](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/sender-invitation-create.htm)
  * [CLI](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/sender-invitation-create.htm)
  * [API](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/sender-invitation-create.htm)


  * You can attach [governance rules](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/add-governance.htm#add_governance "Use governance rules to configure and attach controls to tenancies in your organization. When a governance rule is attached to a tenancy, a corresponding resource is created and then locked in the target tenancy.") to the invited tenancy when you create the invitation, or you can [attach rules](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/add-governance-attachruletenancy.htm#add_governance_attachruletenancy "Attach an existing governance rule to one or more tenancies.") later. To attach governance rules _before_ sending the invitation, you can [create governance rules](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/add-governance.htm#add_governance "Use governance rules to configure and attach controls to tenancies in your organization. When a governance rule is attached to a tenancy, a corresponding resource is created and then locked in the target tenancy.") first on the **Governance Rules** page, so they're available for selection during the invite tenancy process.
To invite a tenancy, follow these steps:
    1. Sign in to the sender tenancy (the one that will send the invitation), as a user that has permissions to manage Organization Management functions.
    2. Open the navigation menu and select **Governance & Administration**. Under **Organization Management** , select **Tenancies**.
    3. Select **Invite tenancy.**
    4. On the **Invite tenancy** panel, in **Invitation name** , enter the name of the invitation that will be visible to the recipient. Avoid entering confidential information.
**Note** For the invitation name, it can be helpful to use notation that signifies the direction and number of sending invitation attempts. For example, entering `a1 to b1 v1` can signify that tenancy a1 is sending an invitation to tenancy b1, and v1 as the first try. Such a convention allows the invitations to be more readable to the Console user, without needing to access the invitation details page to view sender and recipient details. For more information, see [Listing Sender Invitations](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/sender-invitation-list.htm#sender_invitation_list "View a list of invitations sent to tenancies inviting them to join an organization.") and [Listing Recipient Invitations](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/recipient-invitation-list.htm#recipient_invitation_list "View a list of invitations that a tenancy has received to join an organization.").
    5. In **Recipient tenancy OCID** , enter the recipient's OCID. You can [find the OCID](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/Tasks/managingtenancy.htm#view) on the [tenancy details](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/Identity/tenancy/managingtenancy.htm#info) page.
    6. In **Recipient email** , enter and confirm the recipient's email address.
**Note** To accept the invitation, the recipient must have the correct permissions to manage subscription sharing in the recipient tenancy. For more information, see [Required IAM Policy](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/organization_required_iam_policy.htm#organization_management_required_iam_policy "Learn about Organization Management required IAM policies."). 
    7. Select **Show advanced options** and enter any tagging details. For more information, see [Resource Tags](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/resourcetags.htm#Resource_Tags).
    8. Select **Next**. 
    9. In the **Governance rules** step, you can select [governance rules](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/add-governance.htm#add_governance "Use governance rules to configure and attach controls to tenancies in your organization. When a governance rule is attached to a tenancy, a corresponding resource is created and then locked in the target tenancy.") to attach to the tenancy, or skip this step and [attach them later](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/add-governance-attachruletenancy.htm#add_governance_attachruletenancy "Attach an existing governance rule to one or more tenancies."). By default, the **Require tenancy to join organization governance** option is selected for the tenancy. If this option is cleared, a message indicates that you haven't selected organization governance for this tenancy. To attach governance rules to this tenancy in the future, you must request the invited tenancy to use governance rules, and have the tenancy accept ([opt in to](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/add-governance-optinuserules.htm#add_governance_optinuserules "Certain types of tenancies that are already part of the organization can opt in to use governance rules.")) the request.
    10. If you want to select governance rules now, select them from the table. You can filter the table by the rule type (**All** , **Allowed regions** , **Quota policies** , **Tags**), or the targeted tenancy. You can expand any rule entry and view its details.
**Note** Some rules are set by the entire organization. Such rules are already selected, and can't be cleared.
    11. Select **Next**.
    12. Review the summary step to verify the invited tenancy settings.
       * **Tenancy details** shows the invitation name and recipient tenancy OCID.
       * **Governance rules** shows the rule names, rule type, and targeted tenancies if governance rules were attached. Whether rules were attached or not, the **Require tenancy to join organization governance** field indicates whether the invited tenancy is required to join organization governance with **Yes** or **No**. [Governance rules](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/add-governance.htm#add_governance "Use governance rules to configure and attach controls to tenancies in your organization. When a governance rule is attached to a tenancy, a corresponding resource is created and then locked in the target tenancy.") can be created, attached, and detached later.
    13. Select **Invite tenancy**.
The invitation is sent to the recipient tenancy. A notification is displayed that you have successfully requested to invite a tenancy (with the associated OCID) to join the organization. If the request completes successfully, then the recipient tenancy receives an invitation to accept. The invitation expires in 30 days.
    14. After the invitation is accepted and processed, its **Status** field changes to **Accepted**. The recipient tenancy then becomes a child tenancy under the parent tenancy in the organization. 
After the invitation is accepted, it takes one to two hours for metering to start flowing to the subscription in the parent tenancy. After that, all usage in the child tenancy is metered against the parent tenancy's subscription. In addition, after the tenancy joins the organization, we recommend that you wait a few hours before creating resources (that is, if you want to be sure that all spending accrues against the subscription of the parent tenancy). 
If a remaining subscription balance exists, contact your sales representative to move it to a primary subscription in the sending tenancy. 
**Note** After the tenancy becomes a child tenancy in the organization, it can't invite another tenancy to become a child tenancy. Also, when a tenancy joins your organization, its subscription is managed by the parent tenancy. To map a child tenancy back to the original subscription, use [Subscription Mapping](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/subscription-mapping-management.htm#subscription_mapping_management "Learn about subscription mapping management.").
On the **Tenancies** list page for the child tenancy and the parent tenancy both tenancies are listed. On the parent tenancy's **Tenancies** list page, you can view the child tenancy and parent tenancy, and other child tenancies that are being metered against the organization's subscription. The following information is shown:
    * **Tenancy name** : Displays the name of the tenancy and whether it's a parent or child tenancy.
    * **Tenancy OCID** : Displays the OCID of the tenancy.
    * **Status** : (Parent tenancy only) Displays the invitation status.
    * **Organization governance** : Specifies whether the tenancy is using [governance rules](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/add-governance.htm#add_governance "Use governance rules to configure and attach controls to tenancies in your organization. When a governance rule is attached to a tenancy, a corresponding resource is created and then locked in the target tenancy.") (**Joined**) or not (**Not joined**). 
    * **Join Date** : (Parent tenancy only) The UTC date and time that the tenancy joined the organization and subscription sharing began.
See [Accepting an Invitation to Join an Organization](https://docs.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/General/organization/recipient-invitation-accept.htm#recipient_invitation_accept "Accept an invitation from a parent tenancy to join an organization.") for more information on accepting an invitation to join an organization.
  * Use the [oci organizations sender-invitation create](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/tools/oci-cli/latest/oci_cli_docs/cmdref/organizations/sender-invitation/create.html) command and required parameters to create a sender invitation and asynchronously send the invitation to a recipient:
Command
CopyTry It
```
oci organizations sender-invitation create --compartment-id, -c [text] [OPTIONS]
```

For a complete list of parameters and values for CLI commands, see the [CLI Command Reference](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/tools/oci-cli/latest).
  * Run the [CreateSenderInvitation](https://docs.oracle.com/iaas/api/#/en/organizations/latest/SenderInvitation/CreateSenderInvitation) operation to create a sender invitation and asynchronously send the invitation to a recipient.


Was this article helpful?
YesNo

